Multi tenant privatelink document framework. (#2806)
fishtown-analytics/docs.getdbt.com: website/docs/docs/get-started/privatelink/redshift-privatelink.md

| Type | Principal |
| --- | --- |
| Single-Tenant Prod | arn:aws:iam::952445382732:root |
| Multi-Tenant Prod | arn:aws:iam::346425330055:root |

<Lightbox src="/img/docs/dbt-cloud/redshiftprivatelink5.png" title="Enter ARN"/>

Once the VPC Endpoint Service is provisioned, you can find the service name in the AWS console by navigating to **VPC** → **Endpoint Services** and selecting the appropriate endpoint service. You can copy the service name field value and include it in your communication to dbt Cloud support.

<Lightbox src="/img/docs/dbt-cloud/redshiftprivatelink6.png" title="Get service name field value"/>

## Configuring new endpoints with PrivateLink

Once dbt Cloud support completes the configuration, you can start creating new connections using PrivateLink.

1. Navigate to **settings** → **Create new project** → select **Redshift**
2. Select **Private** for a private connection.
3. Select the private endpoint from the dropdown. When you do this, dbt Cloud automatically populates the hostname/account field.

> 4. Configure the remaining DWH details.

Author: ```suggestion
4. Configure the remaining data platform details.
```

---

The first step is to grant access to dbt Cloud in the Redshift database cluster:

1. On the running Redshift cluster, select the **Properties** tab.

<Lightbox src="/img/docs/dbt-cloud/redshiftprivatelink1.png" title="Redshift Properties tab"/>

2. In the **Granted accounts** section, click **Grant access**.

<Lightbox src="/img/docs/dbt-cloud/redshiftprivatelink2.png" title="Redshift granted accounts"/>

3. Enter the AWS account ID:

- Use `346425330055` for multi-tenant deployment environments in dbt Cloud
- Use `952445382732` for single-tenant deployment environments in dbt Cloud

Optionally, provide the VPC ID for the single-tenant instance or regional multi-tenant PrivateLink VPC. Otherwise, choose **Grant access to all VPCs**.

<Lightbox src="/img/docs/dbt-cloud/redshiftprivatelink3.png" title="Redshift grant access"/>

4. Then, contact the dbt Cloud support team and provide them with your:

- Cluster name
- AWS account ID (where the Redshift cluster is hosted)
- Cluster AWS region

## Configuring Interface VPC PrivateLink

Creating an Interface VPC PrivateLink connection requires creating multiple AWS resources in the account containing the Redshift cluster:

> - **Security Group** &mdash; If connecting to an existing Redshift cluster this likely already exists, however Security Group rules may need to be added or modified to accept traffic from the Network Load Balancer (NLB) created for this Endpoint Service.

Author: ```suggestion
- **Security Group** &mdash; If you are connecting to an existing Redshift cluster, this likely already exists, however, you might need to add or modify Security Group rules to accept traffic from the Network Load Balancer (NLB) created for this Endpoint Service.
```

> - **Target Group** &mdash; The Target Group gets attached to the NLB to tell it where to route requests. There are various target types available for NLB Target Groups, but you will use IP address.

Author: ```suggestion
- **Target Group** &mdash; The Target Group gets attached to the NLB to tell it where to route requests. There are various target types available for NLB Target Groups, but you will use the IP address.
```

---
title: "Configure AWS PrivateLink for Redshift"
id: redshift-privatelink
description: "Configuring PrivateLink for Redshift"

> sidebar_label: "Redshift PrivateLink"

Author: ```suggestion
sidebar_label: "PrivateLink for Redshift"
```

---

The first step is to grant access to dbt Cloud in the Redshift database cluster:

1. On the running Redshift cluster, select the **Properties** tab.

<Lightbox src="/img/docs/dbt-cloud/redshiftprivatelink1.png" title="Redshift Properties tab"/>

2. In the **Granted accounts** section, click **Grant access**.

<Lightbox src="/img/docs/dbt-cloud/redshiftprivatelink2.png" title="Redshift granted accounts"/>

3. Enter the AWS account ID:

- Use `346425330055` for multi-tenant deployment environments in dbt Cloud
- Use `952445382732` for single-tenant deployment environments in dbt Cloud

Optionally, provide the VPC ID for the single-tenant instance or regional multi-tenant PrivateLink VPC. Otherwise, choose **Grant access to all VPCs**.

<Lightbox src="/img/docs/dbt-cloud/redshiftprivatelink3.png" title="Redshift grant access"/>

4. Then, contact the dbt Cloud support team and provide them with your:

- Cluster name
- AWS account ID (where the Redshift cluster is hosted)
- Cluster AWS region

## Configuring Interface VPC PrivateLink

> ### Provisioning the VPC

Author: ```suggestion
```

Creating an Interface VPC PrivateLink connection requires creating multiple AWS resources in the account containing the Redshift cluster:

- **Security Group** &mdash; If connecting to an existing Redshift cluster this likely already exists, however Security Group rules may need to be added or modified to accept traffic from the Network Load Balancer (NLB) created for this Endpoint Service.
- **Target Group** &mdash; The Target Group gets attached to the NLB to tell it where to route requests. There are various target types available for NLB Target Groups, but you will use IP address.

>    ::: Important: 

Author: ```suggestion
::: Important: 
```

        
    1. Use IP addresses from the Redshift cluster’s **Network Interfaces**, _not_ IPs listed in the **Node IP addresses** section as those can change.

    2. There is likely only one Network Interface (NI) to start, but if the cluster fails over to another availability zone (AZ), a new NI will be created for that AZ as well. The NI IP from the original AZ should still work, but the new NI IP can also be added to the Target Group if desired. Just note that the NLB will need to add that AZ as well. Once created, an NI shouldn't change (this is our observation from testing, but is not officially documented anywhere).

    3. Must be set to TCP protocol.
    

>     :::

Author: ```suggestion
:::
```

---

> title: "Configuring Redshift PrivateLink"

Reviewer: sugg being as descriptive as possible in the page title since we care a lot about character length in the left and right sidebars and a lot about not having janky/lengthy URLs

```suggestion
title: "Configure AWS PrivateLink for Redshift"
```

id: redshift-privatelink
description: "Configuring PrivateLink for Redshift"

> sidebar_label: "Redshift PrivateLink"

Reviewer: for the `sidebar_label`, i think it needs another word, it feels truncated a bit. consider something like "PrivateLink for Redshift"

---

> ## Configuring managed PrivateLink

Reviewer: same comment as before.

```suggestion
```

The first step is to grant access to dbt Cloud in the Redshift database cluster:

> 1. On the running Redshift cluster select the **Properties** tab.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. On the running Redshift cluster, select the **Properties** tab.
```

<Lightbox src="/img/docs/dbt-cloud/redshiftprivatelink1.png" title="Redshift Properties tab"/>

> 2.Scroll to the **Granted accounts** section and click the **Grant access** button.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. In the **Granted accounts** section, click **Grant access**.
```

<Lightbox src="/img/docs/dbt-cloud/redshiftprivatelink2.png" title="Redshift granted accounts"/>

3. Enter the AWS account ID:

> - dbt Cloud multi-tenant `346425330055` 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Use `346425330055` for multi-tenant deployment environments in dbt Cloud
```

> - dbt Cloud single-tenant `952445382732`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Use `952445382732` for single-tenant deployment environments in dbt Cloud
```

> Optionally, provide the VPC ID for the single-tenant instance or regional multi-tenatn PrivateLink VPC, otherwise choose Grant access to all VPCs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Optionally, provide the VPC ID for the single-tenant instance or regional multi-tenant PrivateLink VPC. Otherwise, choose **Grant access to all VPCs**.
```

Reviewer: check the indentation of this paragraph in rendered form, looks a bit off

<Lightbox src="/img/docs/dbt-cloud/redshiftprivatelink3.png" title="Redshift grant access"/>

> Once those steps are completed, please contact the dbt support team and provide them with:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Then, contact the dbt Cloud support team and provide them with your:
```

is there an email address we can link to here? or a support page?

- Cluster name
- AWS account ID (where the Redshift cluster is hosted)
- Cluster AWS region

## Configuring Interface VPC PrivateLink

> ### Provisioning the VPC

Reviewer: avoid a heading followed by another heading with no content in between. add intro content or remove a heading

Creating an Interface VPC PrivateLink connection requires creating multiple AWS resources in the account containing the Redshift cluster:

- **Security Group** &mdash; If connecting to an existing Redshift cluster this likely already exists, however Security Group rules may need to be added or modified to accept traffic from the Network Load Balancer (NLB) created for this Endpoint Service.
- **Target Group** &mdash; The Target Group gets attached to the NLB to tell it where to route requests. There are various target types available for NLB Target Groups, but you will use IP address.

> 

Reviewer: if this paragraph is telling the user to do something, consider using more second-person words like "When you create an Interface VPC PrivateLink connection, you need to create .... "

i think it's good to be clear since dbt support is also performing things on behalf of the user

>    ::: Important: 

Reviewer: is this callout supposed to be here? it's not rendering properly. i think it could be the tab indentation here

        
    1. Use IP addresses from the Redshift cluster’s **Network Interfaces**, _not_ IPs listed in the **Node IP addresses** section as those can change.

>     2. There is likely only one Network Interface (NI) to start, but if the cluster fails over to another availability zone (AZ), a new NI will be created for that AZ as well. The NI IP from the original AZ should still work, but the new NI IP can also be added to the Target Group if desired. Just note that the NLB will need to add that AZ as well. Once created, a NI should not change (this is our observation from testing, but it is not officially documented anywhere).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    2. There is likely only one Network Interface (NI) to start, but if the cluster fails over to another availability zone (AZ), a new NI will be created for that AZ as well. The NI IP from the original AZ should still work, but the new NI IP can also be added to the Target Group if desired. Just note that the NLB will need to add that AZ as well. Once created, an NI shouldn't change (this is our observation from testing, but is not officially documented anywhere).
```

    3. Must be set to TCP protocol.
    
    :::

<Lightbox src="/img/docs/dbt-cloud/redshiftprivatelink4.png" title="Target type: IP address"/>

- Network Load Balancer (NLB) &mdash; Requires creating a Listener that attaches to the newly created Target Group for port `5439`
- Endpoint Service &mdash; Attach to the newly created NLB.

>     - Acceptance required (optional) &mdash; Will require you to [accept our connection request](https://www.notion.so/Redshift-Interface-PrivateLink-Setup-Guide-dabac5da3f7c4b0b91716b37820f5aeb) after dbt creates the endpoint.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Acceptance required (optional) &mdash; Requires you to [accept our connection request](https://www.notion.so/Redshift-Interface-PrivateLink-Setup-Guide-dabac5da3f7c4b0b91716b37820f5aeb) after dbt creates the endpoint.
```

>     - Private DNS name (optional) &mdash; This has not been tested and may not be supported. Please contact support if you require this field. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Private DNS name (optional) &mdash; This hasn't been tested and might not be supported. Please contact dbt Cloud support if you require this field. 
```

> ### Granting AWS account access to the VPC

Reviewer: use verb instead of gerund form. 

fix all headings/titles on this page

```suggestion
### Grant AWS account access to the VPC
```

> On the provisioned VPC endpoint service click the **Allow principals** tab, then the **Allow principals** button to grant access. Enter the ARN of the root user in the appropriate prod. AWS account and save your changes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On the provisioned VPC endpoint service, click the **Allow principals** tab. Click **Allow principals** to grant access. Enter the ARN of the root user in the appropriate production AWS account and save your changes.
```

| Type | Principal |
| --- | --- |
| Single-Tenant Prod | arn:aws:iam::952445382732:root |
| Multi-Tenant Prod | arn:aws:iam::346425330055:root |

<Lightbox src="/img/docs/dbt-cloud/redshiftprivatelink5.png" title="Enter ARN"/>

> Once the VPC Endpoint Service is provisioned, the service name can be found in the AWS console by navigating to **VPC** → **Endpoint Services** and selecting the appropriate endpoint service. You can copy the service name field value and include it in the support communication. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once the VPC Endpoint Service is provisioned, you can find the service name in the AWS console by navigating to **VPC** → **Endpoint Services** and selecting the appropriate endpoint service. You can copy the service name field value and include it in your communication to dbt Cloud support.
```

<Lightbox src="/img/docs/dbt-cloud/redshiftprivatelink6.png" title="Get service name field value"/>

## Configuring new endpoints with PrivateLink

> Once support has completed the configuration, you can start creating new connections using PrivateLink. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once dbt Cloud support completes the configuration, you can start creating new connections using PrivateLink.
```

1. Navigate to **settings** → **Create new project** → select **Redshift**

> 2. You will see two radio buttons: **Public** and **Private.** Select **Private**. 

Reviewer: same comment as before

> 3. Select the private endpoint from the dropdown (this will automatically populate the hostname/account field).

Reviewer: same comment as before
